# Experiment 3:

Taken together, the results of Experiments 1 and 2 suggest that control transfer learning is possible. However, we observed no mean group effect of control-learning in the S-C phase, and the transfer effect was modest in size. Moreover, one possible alternative account for the transfer effect in Experiment 1 is that it might reflect the transfer of simple S-R contingencies rather than of control settings (see Supplementary Material). We therefore designed a third experiment with the following goals: First, we aimed to conceptually replicate the control transfer learning effect of Experiment 1. Second, we sought to enhance the S-C Phase learning effect, both to foster a group-level effect and as a potential means to enhance transfer. To this end, we aimed to amplify Stroop conflict by increasing the time between the presentation of a Stroop color-word and its printed color (cf. Appelbaum, Meyerhoff, and Woldorff, 2009), and we sought to strengthen the S-C phase associations between scene images and congruency by showing the S2 cue images for the entire trial duration (with the Stroop color-word shown underneath the scene image). Third, we aimed to rule out the possibility of a contingency learning confound. For this purpose, we manipulated the Stroop stimuli set in the S-C Phase such that a subset of “biased” color words created the cue-congruency associations, while another subset of color-words served as unbiased test items to index stimulus-control learning in the absence of stimulus-response learning confounds (Crump & Milliken, 2009). Finally, since Experiments 1 and 2 were conducted online, we also wanted to ensure the transfer effect would be observable under standard laboratory conditions. Thus, Experiment 3 was run in-person. 
